
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 397 

how closely is it related to Quine's conception of naturalized 
epistemology? The answer, I think, is obvious: not very closely at 
all. In fact, it seems a good deal closer to the Cartesian tradition than 
to Quine. For, as we saw, the difference that matters between Quine's 
epistemological program and the traditional program is the former's 
total renouncement of the latter's normativity, its rejection of 
epistemology as a normative inquiry. The talk of "replacing" 
epistemology with psychology is irrelevant and at best misleading, 
though it could give us a momentary relief from a sense of depriva- 
tion. When one abandons justification and other valuational concepts, 
one abandons the entire framework of normative epistemology. What 
remains is a descriptive empirical theory of human cognition which, 
if Quine has his way, will be entirely devoid of the notion of justifica- 
tion or any other evaluative concept. 
As I take it, this is not what most advocates of epistemological 

naturalism are aiming at. By and large they are not Quinean 
eliminativists in regard to justification, and justification in its full- 
fledged normative sense continues to play a central role in their 
epistemological reflections. Where they differ from their nonnaturalist 
adversaries is the specific way in which criteria of-justification are 
to be formulated. Naturalists and nonnaturalists ("apsychologists") 
can agree that these criteria must be stated in descriptive terms- 
that is, without the use of epistemic or any other kind of normative 
terms. According to Kitcher, an apsychologistic theory of justifica- 
tion would state them primarily in terms of logical properties and 
relations holding for propositional contents of beliefs, whereas the 
psychologistic approach advocates the exclusive use of causal pro- 
perties and relations holding for beliefs as events or states. Many tradi- 
tional epistemologists may prefer criteria that confer upon a cognizer 
a position of special privilege and responsibility with regard to the 
epistemic status of his beliefs, whereas most self-avowed naturalists 
prefer "objective" or "externalist" criteria with no such special 
privileges for the cognizer. But these differences are among those 
that arise within the familiar normative framework, and are consis- 
tent with the exclusion of normative terms in the statement of the 
criteria of justification. 
Normative ethics can serve as a useful model here. To claim that 

basic ethical terms, like "good" and "right", are definable on the basis 
of descriptive or naturalistic terms is one thing; to insist that it is the 
business of normative ethics to provide conditions or criteria for 


