
384 / Jaegwon Kim 

ticular, Quine's-it will be useful to take a brief look at the classic 
response to the epistemological program set forth by Descartes. 
Descartes' approach to the problem of justification is a familiar story, 
at least as the textbook tells it: it takes the form of what is now com- 
monly called "foundationalism". The foundationalist strategy is to 
divide the task of explaining justification into two stages: first, to iden- 
tify a set of beliefs that are "directly" justified in that they are justified 
without deriving their justified status from that of any other belief, 
and then to explain how other beliefs may be "indirectly" or "in- 
ferentially" justified by standing in an appropriate relation to those 
already justified. Directly justified beliefs, or "basic beliefs", are to 
constitute the foundation upon which the superstructure of "nonbasic" 
or "derived" beliefs is to rest. What beliefs then are directly justified, 
according to Descartes? Subtleties aside, he claimed that beliefs about 
our own present conscious states are among them. In what does their 
justification consist? What is it about these beliefs that make them 
directly justified? Somewhat simplistically again, Descartes' answer 
is that they are justified because they are indubitable, that the atten- 
tive and reflective mind cannot but assent to them. How are non- 
basic beliefs justified? By "deduction"-that is, by a series of inferen- 
tial steps, or "intuitions", each of which is indubitable. If, therefore, 
we take Cartesian indubitability as a psychological notion, Descartes' 
epistemological theory can be said to meet the desideratum of pro- 
viding nonepistemic, naturalistic criteria of justified belief. 
Descartes' foundationalist program was inherited, in its essential 

outlines, by the empiricists. In particular, his "mentalism", that beliefs 
about one's own current mental state are epistemologically basic, 
went essentially unchallenged by the empiricists and positivists, 
until this century. Epistemologists have differed from one another 
chiefly in regard to two questions: first, what else belonged in our 
corpus of basic beliefs, and second, how the derivation of the non- 
basic part of our knowledge was to proceed. Even the Logical 
Positivists were, by and large, foundationalists, although some of 
them came to renounce Cartesian mentalism in favor of a 
"physicalistic basis".7 In fact, the Positivists were foundationalists 
twice over: for them "observation", whether phenomenological or 
physical, served not only as the foundation of knowledge but as the 
foundation of all "cognitive meaning"-that is, as both an 
epistemological and a semantic foundation. 


