
382 / Jaegwon Kim 

of a necessary and sufficient condition for a belief to be justified will 
do. The implicit requirement has been that the stated conditions must 
constitute "criteria" of justified belief, and for this it is necessary that 
the conditions be stated without the use of epistemic terms. Thus, 
formulating conditions of justified belief in such terms as "adequate 
evidence", "sufficient ground", "good reason", "beyond a reasonable 
doubt", and so on, would be merely to issue a promissory note 
redeemable only when these epistemic terms are themselves explain- 
ed in a way that accords with the requirement.2 
This requirement, while it points in the right direction, does not 

go far enough. What is crucial is this: the criteria of justified belief 
must be formulated on the basis of descriptive or naturalistic terms 
alone, without the use of any evaluative or normative ones, whether 
epistemic or of another kind.3 Thus, an analysis of justified belief 
that makes use of such terms as "intellectual requirement"4 and 
"having a right to be sure"5 would not satisfy this generalized con- 
dition; although such an analysis can be informative and enlighten- 
ing about the inter-relationships of these normative concepts, it will 
not, on the present conception, count as a statement of criteria of 
justified belief, unless of course these terms are themselves provid- 
ed with nonnormative criteria. What is problematic, therefore, about 
the use of epistemic terms in stating criteria of justified belief is not 
its possible circularity in the usual sense; rather it is the fact that these 
epistemic terms are themselves essentially normative. We shall later 
discuss the rationale of this strengthened requirement. 
As many philosophers have observed,6 the two questions we have 

set forth, one about the criteria of justified belief and the other about 
what we can be said to know according to those criteria, constrain 
each other. Although some philosophers have been willing to swallow 
skepticism just because what we regard as correct criteria of justified 
belief are seen to lead inexorably to the conclusion that none, or 
very few, of our beliefs are justified, the usual presumption is that 
our answer to the first question should leave our epistemic situation 
largely unchanged. That is to say, it is expected to turn out that ac- 
cording to the criteria of justified belief we come to accept, we know, 
or are justified in believing, pretty much what we reflectively think 
we know or are entitled to believe. 
Whatever the exact history, it is evident that the concept of justifica- 

tion has come to take center stage in our reflections on the nature 
of knowledge. And apart from history, there is a simple reason for 


