
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 393 

of beliefs and other propositional attitudes to be largely and essen- 
tially rational and coherent. As Davidson has emphasized, a given 
belief has the content it has in part because of its location in a net- 
work of other beliefs and propositional attitudes; and what at bot- 
tom grounds this network is the evidential relation, a relation that 
regulates what is reasonable to believe given other beliefs one holds. 
That is, unless our cognizer is a "rational being", a being whose 
cognitive "output" is regulated and constrained by norms of 
rationality-typically, these norms holistically constrain his proposi- 
tional attitudes in virtue of their contents-we cannot intelligibly in- 
terpret his "output" as consisting of beliefs. Conversely, if we are 
unable to interpret our subject's meanings and propositional attitudes 
in a way that satisfies a minimal standard of rationality, there is lit- 
tle reason to regard him as a "cognizer", a being that forms represen- 
tations and constructs theories. This means that there is a sense of 
"rational" in which the expression "rational belief" is redundant; 
every belief must be rational in certain minimal ways. It is not 
important for the purposes of the present argument what these 
minimal standards of rationality are; the only point that matters is 
that unless the output of our cognizer is subject to evaluation in ac- 
cordance with norms of rationality, that output cannot be considered 
as consisting of beliefs and hence cannot be the object of an 
epistemological inquiry, whether plain or naturalized. 
We can separate the core of these considerations from controver- 

sial issues involving the so-called "principle of charity", minimal ra- 
tionality, and other matters in the theory of radical interpretation. 
What is crucial is this: for the interpretation and attribution of beliefs 
to be possible, not only must we assume the overall rationality of 
cognizers, but also we must continually evaluate and re-evaluate the 
putative beliefs of a cognizer in their evidential relationship to one 
another and other propositional attitudes. It is not merely that belief 
attribution requires the umbrella assumption about the overall ra- 
tionality of cognizers. Rather, the point is that belief attribution re- 
quires belief evaluation, in accordance with normative standards of 
evidence and justification. If this is correct, rationality in its broad 
and fundamental sense is not an optional property of beliefs, a vir- 
tue that some beliefs may enjoy and others lack; it is a precondition 
of the attribution and individuation of belief-that is, a property 
without which the concept of belief would be unintelligible and 
pointless. 


