
394 / Jaegwon Kim 

Two objections might be raised to counter these considerations. 
First, one might argue that at best they show only that the normativity 
of belief is an epistemological assumption-that we need to assume 
the rationality and coherence of belief systems when we are trying 
to find out what beliefs to attribute to a cognizer. It does not follow 
from this epistemological point, the objection continues, that the con- 
cept of belief is itself normative.23 In replying to this objection, we 
can by-pass the entire issue of whether the rationality assumption 
concerns only the epistemology of belief attribution. Even if this 
premise (which I think is incorrect) is granted, the point has already 
been made. For it is an essential part of the business of naturalized 
epistemology, as a theory of how beliefs are formed as a result of 
sensory stimulation, to find out what particular beliefs the given 
cognizers have formed. But this is precisely what cannot be done, 
if our considerations show anything at all, unless the would-be 
naturalized epistemologist continually evaluates the putative beliefs 
of his subjects in regard to their rationality and coherence, subject 
to the overall constraint of the assumption that the cognizers are 
largely rational. The naturalized epistemologist cannot dispense with 
normative concepts or disengage himself from valuational activities. 
Second, it might be thought that we could simply avoid these con- 

siderations stemming from belief attribution by refusing to think of 
cognitive output as consisting of "beliefs", namely as states having 
propositional contents. The "representations" Quine speaks of should 
be taken as appropriate neural states, and this means that all we need 
is to be able to discern neural states of organisms. This requires only 
neurophysiology and the like, not the normative theory of rational 
belief. My reply takes the form of a dilemma: either the "appropriate" 
neural states are identified by seeing how they correlate with 
beliefs,24 in which case we still need to contend with the problem 
of radical interpretation, or beliefs are entirely by-passed. In the lat- 
ter case, belief, along with justification, drops out of Quinean 
epistemology, and it is unclear in what sense we are left with an in- 
quiry that has anything to do with knowledge.25 

6. The "Psychologistic" Approach to Epistemology 

Many philosophers now working in theory of knowledge have 
stressed the importance of systematic psychology to philosophical 


