
398 / Jaegwon Kim 

"good" and "right" in descriptive or naturalistic terms is another. One 
may properly reject the former, the so-called "ethical naturalism", 
as many moral philosophers have done, and hold the latter; there 
is no obvious inconsistency here. G. E. Moore is a philosopher who 
did just that. As is well known, he was a powerful critic of ethical 
naturalism, holding that goodness is a "simple" and "nonnatural" 
property. At the same time, he held that a thing's being good 
"follows" from its possessing certain naturalistic properties. He 
wrote:33 

I should never have thought of suggesting that goodness was 
'non-natural', unless I had supposed that it was 'derivative' in 
the sense that, whenever a thing is good (in the sense in 
question) its goodness ...'depends on the presence of certain 
non-ethical characteristics' possessed by the thing in 
question: I have always supposed that it did so 'depend', in 
the sense that, if a thing is good (in my sense), then that it is 
so follows from the fact that it possesses certain natural 
intrinsic properties ... 

It makes sense to think of these "natural intrinsic properties" from 
which a thing's being good is thought to follow as constituting 
naturalistic criteria of goodness, or at least pointing to the existence 
of such criteria. One can reject ethical naturalism, the doctrine that 
ethical concepts are definitionally eliminable in favor of naturalistic 
terms, and at the same time hold that ethical properties, or the ascrip- 
tion of ethical terms, must be governed by naturalistic criteria. It is 
clear, then, that we are here using "naturalism" ambiguously in 
"epistemological naturalism" and "ethical naturalism". In our pre- 
sent usage, epistemological naturalism does not include (nor does 
it necessarily exclude) the claim that epistemic terms are definitionally 
reducible to naturalistic terms. (Quine's naturalism is eliminative, 
though it is not a definitional eliminativism.) 
If, therefore, we locate the split between Quine and traditional 

epistemology at the descriptive vs. normative divide, then currently 
influential naturalism in epistemology is not likely to fall on Quine's 
side. On this descriptive vs. normative issue, one can side with Quine 
in one of two ways: first, one rejects, with Quine, the entire 
justification-based epistemological program; or second, like ethical 
naturalists but unlike Quine, one believes that epistemic concepts 
are naturalistically definable. I doubt that very many epistemological 


