
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 385 

3. Quine's Arguments 

It has become customary for epistemologists who profess allegiance 
to a "naturalistic" conception of knowledge to pay homage to Quine 
as the chief contemporary provenance of their inspiration-especially 
to his influential paper "Epistemology Naturalized".8 Quine's prin- 
cipal argument in this paper against traditional epistemology is bas- 
ed on the claim that the Cartesian foundationalist program has 
failed-that the Cartesian "quest for certainty" is "a lost cause". While 
this claim about the hopelessness of the Cartesian "quest for certain- 
ty" is nothing new, using it to discredit the very conception of nor- 
mative epistemology is new, something that any serious student of 
epistemology must contend with. 
Quine divides the classic epistemological program into two parts: 

conceptual reduction whereby physical terms, including those of 
theoretical science, are reduced, via definition, to terms referring 
to phenomenal features of sensory experience, and doctrinal reduc- 
tion whereby truths about the physical world are appropriately ob- 
tained from truths about sensory experience. The "appropriateness" 
just alluded to refers to the requirement that the favored epistemic 
status ("certainty" for classic epistemologists, according to Quine) of 
our basic beliefs be transferred, essentially undiminished, to deriv- 
ed beliefs, a necessary requirement if the derivational process is to 
yield knowledge from knowledge. What derivational methods have 
this property of preserving epistemic status? Perhaps there are none, 
given our proneness to err in framing derivations as in anything else, 
not to mention the possibility of lapses of attention and memory in 
following lengthy proofs. But logical deduction comes as close to be- 
ing one as any; it can at least be relied on to transmit truth, if not 
epistemic status. It could perhaps be argued that no method can 
preserve certainty unless it preserves (or is known to preserve) truth; 
and if this is so, logical deduction is the only method worth consider- 
ing. I do not know whether this was the attitude of most classic 
epistemologists; but Quine assumes that if deduction doesn't fill their 
bill, nothing will. 

Quine sees the project of conceptual reduction as culminating in 
Carnap's Der Logische Aufbau der Welt. As Quine sees it, Carnap 
"came nearest to executing" the conceptual half of the classic 
epistemological project. But coming close is not good enough. 
Because of the holistic manner in which empirical meaning is 


