
390 / Jaegwon Kim 

accorded experimentally controlled input-certain patterns of 
irradiation in assorted frequencies, for instance-and in the 
fullness of time the subject delivers as output a description 
of the three-dimensional external world and its history. The 
relation between the meager input and torrential output is a 
relation that we are prompted to study for somewhat the 
same reasons that always prompted epistemology; namely, 
in order to see how evidence relates to theory, and in what 
ways one's theory of nature transcends any available 
evidence. 

The relation Quine speaks of between "meager input" and "torren- 
tial output" is a causal relation; at least it is qua causal relation that 
the naturalized epistemologist investigates it. It is none of the 
naturalized epistemologist's business to assess whether, and to what 
degree, the input "justifies" the output, how a given irradiation of 
the subject's retinas makes it "reasonable" or "rational" for the sub- 
ject to emit certain representational output. His interest is strictly 
causal and nomological: he wants us to look for patterns of lawlike 
dependencies characterizing the input-output relations for this par- 
ticular organism and others of a like physical structure. 
If this is right, it makes Quine's attempt to relate his naturalized 

epistemology to traditional epistemology look at best lame. For in 
what sense is the study of causal relationships between physical 
stimulation of sensory receptors and the resulting cognitive output 
a way of "seeing how evidence relates to theory" in an 
epistemologically relevant sense? The causal relation between sen- 
sory input and cognitive output is a relation between "evidence" and 
"theory"; however, it is not an evidential relation. This can be seen 
from the following consideration: the nomological patterns that Quine 
urges us to look for are certain to vary from species to species, 
depending on the particular way each biological (and possibly non- 
biological) species processes information, but the evidential relation 
in its proper normative sense must abstract from such factors and 
concern itself only with the degree to which evidence supports 
hypothesis. 
In any event, the concept of evidence is inseparable from that of 

justification. When we talk of "evidence" in an epistemological sense 
we are talking about justification: one thing is "evidence" for another 
just in case the first tends to enhance the reasonableness or justifica- 


