
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 395 

epistemology. Reasons proffered for this are various, and so are the 
conceptions of the proper relationship between psychology and 
epistemology.26 But they are virtually unanimous in their rejection 
of what they take to be the epistemological tradition of Descartes 
and its modern embodiments in philosophers like Russell, C. I. Lewis, 
Roderick Chisholm, and A. J. Ayer; and they are united in their en- 
dorsement the naturalistic approach of Quine we have been consider- 
ing. Traditional epistemology is often condemned as "aprioristic", 
and as having lost sight of human knowledge as a product of natural 
causal processes and its function in the survival of the organism and 
the species. Sometimes, the adherents of the traditional approach 
are taken to task for their implicit antiscientific bias or indifference 
to the new developments in psychology and related disciplines. Their 
own approach in contrast is hailed as "naturalistic" and "scientific", 
better attuned to significant advances in the relevant scientific fields 
such as "cognitive science" and "neuroscience", promising 
philosophical returns far richer than what the aprioristic method of 
traditional epistemology has been able to deliver. We shall here brief- 
ly consider how this new naturalism in epistemology is to be 
understood in relation to the classic epistemological program and 
Quine's naturalized epistemology. 
Let us see how one articulate proponent of the new approach ex- 

plains the distinctiveness of his position vis-a-vis that of the tradi- 
tional epistemologists. According to Philip Kitcher, the approach he 
rejects is characterized by an "apsychologistic" attitude that takes 
the difference between knowledge and true belief-that is, 
justification-to consist in "ways which are independent of the causal 
antecedents of a subject's states".27 Kitcher writes:28 

...we can present the heart of [the apsychologistic approach] 
by considering the way in which it would tackle the 
question of whether a person's true belief that p counts as 
knowledge that p. The idea would be to disregard the 
psychological life of the subject, looking just at the various 
propositions she believes. If p is 'connected in the right way' 
to other propositions which are believed, then we count the 
subject as knowing that p. Of course, apsychologisitc 
epistemology will have to supply a criterion for propositions 
to be 'connected in the right way' ... but proponents of this 
view of knowledge will emphasize that the criterion is to be 


