
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 399 

naturalists will embrace either of these alternatives.34 

7. Epistemic Supervenience-Or Why Normative Epistemology 
Is Possible 

But why should we think that there must be naturalistic criteria 
of justified belief and other terms of epistemic appraisal? If we take 
the discovery and systematization of such criteria to be the central 
task of normative epistemology, is there any reason to think that 
this task can be fruitfully pursued, that normative epistemology is 
a possible field of inquiry? Quine's point is that it is not. We have 
already noted the limitation of Quine's negative arguments in 
"Epistemology Naturalized", but is there a positive reason for think- 
ing that normative epistemology is a viable program? One could con- 
sider a similar question about the possibility of normative ethics. 

I think there is a short and plausible initial answer, although a detail- 
ed defense of it would involve complex general issues about norms 
and values. The short answer is this: we believe in the supervenience 
of epistemic properties on naturalistic ones, and more generally, in 
the supervenience of all valuational and normative properties on 
naturalistic conditions. This comes out in various ways. We think, 
with R.M. Hare,35 that if two persons or acts coincide in all descrip- 
tive or naturalistic details, they cannot differ in respect of being good 
or right, or any other valuational aspects. We also think that if 
something is "good" a "good car", "good drop shot", "good argu- 
ment"-then that must be so "in virtue of" its being a "certain way", 
that is, its having certain "factual properties". Being a good car, say, 
cannot be a brute and ultimate fact: a car is good because it has a 
certain contextually indicated set of properties having to do with per- 
formance, reliability, comfort, styling, economy, etc. The same goes 
for justified belief: if a belief is justified, that must be so because it 
has certain factual, nonepistemic properties, such as perhaps that 
it is "indubitable", that it is seen to be entailed by another belief that 
is independently justified, that it is appropriately caused by percep- 
tual experience, or whatever. That it is a justified belief cannot be 
a brute fundamental fact unrelated to the kind of belief it is. There 
must be a reason for it, and this reason must be grounded in the 
factual descriptive properties of that particular belief. Something like 
this, I think, is what we believe. 


