
388 / Jaegwon Kim 

propriately called "epistemology". Naturalized epistemology is to be 
a kind of epistemology after all, a "successor subject"'13 to classical 
epistemology. 
How should we react to Quine's urgings? What should be our 

response? The Cartesian project of validating science starting from 
the indubitable foundation of first-person psychological reports 
(perhaps with the help of certain indubitable first principles) is not 
the whole of classical epistemology-or so it would seem at first blush. 
In our characterization of classical epistemology, the Cartesian pro- 
gram was seen as one possible response to the problem of epistemic 
justification, the two-part project of identifying the criteria of 
epistemic justification and determining what beliefs are in fact justified 
according to those criteria. In urging "naturalized epistemology" on 
us, Quine is not suggesting that we give up the Cartesian founda- 
tionalist solution and explore others within the same 
framework14-perhaps, to adopt some sort of "coherentist" strategy, 
or to require of our basic beliefs only some degree of "initial credibil- 
ity" rather than Cartesian certainty, or to permit some sort of 
probabilistic derivation in addition to deductive derivation of non- 
basic knowledge, or to consider the use of special rules of evidence, 
like Chisholm's "principles of evidence",15 or to give up the search 
for a derivational process that transmits undiminished certainty in 
favor of one that can transmit diminished but still useful degrees of 
justification. Quine's proposal is more radical than that. He is asking 
us to set aside the entire framework of justification-centered 
epistemology. That is what is new in Quine's proposals. Quine is ask- 
ing us to put in its place a purely descriptive, causal-nomological 
science of human cognition.16 
How should we characterize in general terms the difference be- 

tween traditional epistemological programs, such as foundationalism 
and coherence theory, on the one hand and Quine's program of 
naturalized epistemology on the other? Quine's stress is on the fac- 
tual and descriptive character of his program; he says, "Why not see 
how [the construction of theory from observation] actually proceeds? 
Why not settle for psychology?";17 again, "Better to discover how 
science is in fact developed and learned than ..."18 We are given to 
understand that in contrast traditional epistemology is not a descrip- 
tive, factual inquiry. Rather, it is an attempt at a "validation" or "ra- 
tional reconstruction" of science. Validation, according to Quine, pro- 
ceeds via deduction, and rational reconstruction via definition. 


