
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 387 

really proceeds? Why not settle for psychology? Such a 
surrender of the epistemological burden to psychology is a 
move that was disallowed in earlier times as circular 
reasoning. If the epistemologist's goal is validation of the 
grounds of empirical science, he defeats his purpose by 
using psychology or other empirical science in the 
validation. However, such scruples against circularity have 
little point once we have stopped dreaming of deducing 
science from observation. If we are out simply to understand 
the link between observation and science, we are well 
advised to use any available information, including that 
provided by the very science whose link with observation 
we are seeking to understand. 

And Quine has the following to say about the failure of Carnap's 
reductive program in the Aufbau:12 

To relax the demand for definition, and settle for a kind of 
reduction that does not eliminate, is to renounce the last 
remaining advantage that we supposed rational recon- 
struction to have over straight psychology; namely, the 
advantage of translational reduction. If all we hope for is a 
reconstruction that links science to experience in explicit 
ways short of translation, then it would seem more sensible 
to settle for psychology. Better to discover how science is in 
fact developed and learned than to fabricate a fictitious 
structure to a similar effect. 

If a task is entirely hopeless, if we know it cannot be executed, no 
doubt it is rational to abandon it; we would be better off doing 
something else that has some hope of success. We can agree with 
Quine that the "validation"-that is, logical deduction-of science on 
the basis of observation cannot be had; so it is rational to abandon 
this particular epistemological program, if indeed it ever was a pro- 
gram that anyone seriously undertook. But Quine's recommenda- 
tions go further. In particular, there are two aspects of Quine's pro- 
posals that are of special interest to us: first, he is not only advising 
us to quit the program of "validating science", but urging us to take 
up another specific project, an empirical psychological study of our 
cognitive processes; second, he is also claimihg that this new pro- 
gram replaces the old, that both programs are part of something ap- 


