
386 / Jaegwon Kim 

generated by experience, no reduction of the sort Carnap and others 
so eagerly sought could in principle be completed. For definitional 
reduction requires point-to-point meaning relations9 between 
physical terms and phenomenal terms, something that Quine's holism 
tells us cannot be had. The second half of the program, doctrinal 
reduction, is in no better shape; in fact, it was the one to stumble 
first, for, according to Quine, its impossibility was decisively 
demonstrated long before the Aufbau, by Hume in his celebrated 
discussion of induction. The "Humean predicament" shows that 
theory cannot be logically deduced from observation; there simply 
is no way of deriving theory from observation that will transmit the 
latter's epistemic status intact to the former. 
I don't think anyone wants to disagree with Quine in these claims. 

It is not possible to "validate" science on the basis of sensory ex- 
perience, if "validation" means justification through logical deduc- 
tion. Quine of course does not deny that our theories depend on 
observation for evidential support; he has said that sensory evidence 
is the only evidence there is. To be sure, Quine's argument against 
the possibility of conceptual reduction has a new twist: the applica- 
tion of his "holism". But his conclusion is no surprise; "translational 
phenomenalism" has been moribund for many years.10 And, as 
Quine himself notes, his argument against the doctrinal reduction, 
the "quest for certainty", is only a restatement of Hume's "skeptical" 
conclusions concerning induction: induction after all is not deduc- 
tion. Most of us are inclined, I think, to view the situation Quine 
describes with no great alarm, and I rather doubt that these conclu- 
sions of Quine's came as news to most epistemologists when 
"Epistemology Naturalized" was first published. We are tempted to 
respond: of course we can't define physical concepts in terms of sense- 
data; of course observation "underdetermines" theory. That is why 
observation is observation and not theory. 
So it is agreed on all hands that the classical epistemological pro- 

ject, conceived as one of deductively validating physical knowledge 
from indubitable sensory data, cannot succeed. But what is the moral 
of this failure? What should be its philosophical lesson to us? Having 
noted the failure of the Cartesian program, Quine goes on:11 

The stimulation of his sensory receptors is all the evidence 
anybody has had to go on, ultimately, in arriving at his 
picture of the world. Why not just see how this construction 


