
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 383 

our preoccupation with justification: it is the only specifically 
epistemic component in the classic tripartite conception of 
knowledge. Neither belief nor truth is a specifically epistemic notion: 
belief is a psychological concept and truth a semantical-metaphysical 
one. These concepts may have an implicit epistemological dimen- 
sion, but if they do, it is likely to be through their involvement with 
essentially normative epistemic notions like justification, evidence, 
and rationality. Moreover, justification is what makes knowledge itself 
a normative concept. On surface at least, neither truth nor belief is 
normative or evaluative (I shall argue below, though, that belief does 
have an essential normative dimension). But justification manifestly 
is normative. If a belief is justified for us, then it is permissible and 
reasonable, from the epistemic point of view, for us to hold it, and 
it would be epistemically irresponsible to hold beliefs that contradict 
it. If we consider believing or accepting a proposition to be an "ac- 
tion" in an appropriate sense, belief justification would then be a 
special case of justification of action, which in its broadest terms is 
the central concern of normative ethics. Just as it is the business of 
normative ethics to delineate the conditions under which acts and 
decisions are justified from the moral point of view, so it is the 
business of epistemology to identify and analyze the conditions under 
which beliefs, and perhaps other propositional attitudes, are justified 
from the epistemological point of view. It probably is only an 
historical accident that we standardly speak of "normative ethics" 
but not of "normative epistemology". Epistemology is a normative 
discipline as much as, and in the same sense as, normative ethics. 
We can summarize our discussion thus far in the following points: 

that justification is a central concept of our epistemological tradition, 
that justification, as it is understood in this tradition, is a normative 
concept, and in consequence that epistemology itself is a normative 
inquiry whose principal aim is a systematic study of the conditions 
of justified belief. I take it that these points are uncontroversial, 
although of course there could be disagreement about the details- 
for example, about what it means to say a concept or theory is "nor- 
mative" or "evaluative". 

2. The Foundationalist Strategy 

In order to identify the target of the naturalistic critique-in par- 


