
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 389 

However, their point is justificatory-that is, to rationalize our sun- 
dry knowledge claims. So Quine is asking us to set aside what is "ra- 
tional" in rational reconstruction. 
Thus, it is normativity that Quine is asking us to repudiate. Although 

Quine does not explicitly characterize traditional epistemology as 
"normative" or "prescriptive", his meaning is ,unmistakable. 
Epistemology is to be "a chapter of psychology", a law-based 
predictive-explanatory theory, like any other theory within empirical 
science; its principal job is to see how human cognizers develop 
theories (their "picture of the world") from observation ("the stimula- 
tion of their sensory receptors"). Epistemology is to go out of the 
business of justification. We earlier characterized traditional 
epistemology as essentially normative; we see why Quine wants us 
to reject it. Quine is urging us to replace a normative theory of cogni- 
tion with a descriptive science. 

4. Losing Knowledge from Epistemology 

If justification drops out of epistemology, knowledge itself drops 
out of epistemology. For our concept of knowledge is inseparably 
tied to that of justification. As earlier noted, knowledge itself is a nor- 
mative notion. Quine's nonnormative, naturalized epistemology has 
no room for our concept of knowledge. It is not surprising that, in 
describing naturalized epistemology, Quine seldom talks about 
knowledge; instead, he talks about "science" and "theories" and 
"representations". Quine would have us investigate how sensory 
stimulation "leads" to "theories" and "representation" of the world. 
I take it that within the traditional scheme these "theories" and 
"representations" correspond to beliefs, or systems of beliefs; thus, 
what Quine would have us do is to investigate how sensory stimula- 
tion leads to the formation of beliefs about the world. 

But in what sense of "lead"? I take it that Quine has in mind a causal 
or nomological sense. He is urging us to develop a theory, an em- 
pirical theory, that uncovers lawful regularities governing the pro- 
cesses through which organisms come to develop beliefs about their 
environment as a causal result of having their sensory receptors 
stimulated in certain ways. Quine says:19 

[Naturalized epistemology] studies a natural phenomenon, 
viz., a physical human subject. This human subject is 


