
What is "Naturalized Epistemology"? / 391 

tion of the second. And such evidential relations hold in part because 
of the "contents" of the items involved, not merely because of the 
causal or nomological connections between them. A strictly nonnor- 
mative concept of evidence is not our concept of evidence; it is 
something that we do not understand.20 

None of us, I think, would want to quarrel with Quine about the 
interest or importance of the psychological study of how our sen- 
sory input causes our epistemic output. This is only to say that the 
study of human (or other kinds of) cognition is of interest. That isn't 
our difficulty; our difficulty is whether, and in what sense, pursuing 
Quine's "epistemology" is a way of doing epistemology-that is, a 
way of studying "how evidence relates to theory". Perhaps, Quine's 
recommendation that we discard justification-centered epistemology 
is worth pondering; and his exhortation to take up the study of 
psychology perhaps deserves to be heeded also. What is mysterious 
is why this recommendation has to be coupled with the rejection 
of normative epistemology (if normative epistemology is not a possi- 
ble inquiry, why shouldn't the would-be epistemologist turn to, say, 
hydrodynamics or ornithology rather than psychology?). But of 
course Quine is saying more; he is saying that an understandable, 
if misguided, motivation (that is, seeing "how evidence relates to 
theory") does underlie our proclivities for indulgence in normative 
epistemology, but that we would be better served by a scientific study 
of human cognition than normative epistemology. 

But it is difficult to see how an "epistemology" that has been purg- 
ed of normativity, one that lacks an appropriate normative concept 
of justification or evidence, can have anything to do with the con- 
cerns of traditional epistemology. And unless naturalized 
epistemology and classical epistemology share some of their central 
concerns, it's difficult to see how one could replace the other, or be 
a way (a better way) of doing the other.21 To be sure, they both in- 
vestigate "how evidence relates to theory". But putting the matter 
this way can be misleading, and has perhaps misled Quine: the two 
disciplines do not investigate the same relation. As lately noted, nor- 
mative epistemology is concerned with the evidential relation prop- 
erly so-called-that is, the relation of justification-and Quine's 
naturalized epistemology is meant to study the causal-nomological 
relation. For epistemology to go out of the business of justification 
is for it to go out of business. 


